Docs: world api general cleanup/overhaul (#2598)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: docs/world api.md

# Archipelago API

This document tries to explain some internals required to implement a game for Archipelago's generation and server.

> Once a seed is generated, a client or mod is required to send and receive items between the game and server.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I see the link between the two sentences.

# Archipelago API

This document tries to explain some aspects of the Archipelago World API used when implementing the generation logic of
a game.

Client implementation is out of scope of this document. Please refer to an existing game that provides a similar API to
yours, and the following documents:

* [network protocol.md](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/docs/network%20protocol.md)
* [adding games.md](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/docs/adding%20games.md)

Archipelago will be abbreviated as "AP" from now on.

## Language

AP worlds are written in python3.
Clients that connect to the server to sync items can be in any language that allows using WebSockets.

## Coding style

AP follows a [style guide](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/docs/style.md).

> When in doubt, use an IDE with coding style linter, for example PyCharm Community Edition.

Reviewer 2: The "a" should at least be here, less sure about "coding style" vs "code-style", but I think the latter is correct
```suggestion
When in doubt, use an IDE with a code-style linter, for example PyCharm Community Edition.
```

docstrings will be picked up and used by AP. They are assigned by writing a string without any assignment right below a
definition. The string must be a triple-quoted string, and should
follow [reST style](https://peps.python.org/pep-0287/).

Example:

```python
from worlds.AutoWorld import World

class MyGameWorld(World):
    """This is the description of My Game that will be displayed on the AP website."""
```

## Definitions

This section covers various classes and objects you can use for your world. While some of the attributes and methods
are mentioned here, not all of them are, but you can find them in
[`BaseClasses.py`](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/BaseClasses.py).

### World Class

A `World` is the class with all the specifics of a certain game that is to be included. A new instance will be created
for each player of the game for any given generated multiworld.

### WebWorld Class

A `WebWorld` class contains specific attributes and methods that can be modified for your world specifically on the
webhost:

* `options_page` can be changed to a link instead of an AP-generated options page.

> * `theme` to be used for your game-specific AP pages. Available themes:

Reviewer 2: I think something went wrong with the display here, it doesn't look right when selecting "View file"

etc. Players provide the customized options for their World in the form of yamls.

A `dataclass`, which must be a subclass of `PerGameCommonOptions`, of valid options definitions has to be provided in
`self.options_dataclass`. Option results are then automatically added to the `World` object for easy access, between
`World` creation and `generate_early`. These are accessible through `self.options.<option_name>`, and you can get a
dictionary with option values via `self.options.as_dict(<option_names>)`, passing the desired option names as strings.

By convention, options are defined in `options.py` and will be used when parsing the players' yaml files.

Each option has its own class, which inherits from a base option type, has a docstring to describe it, and a
`display_name` property for display on the website and in spoiler logs.

The actual name as used in the yaml is defined via the field names of a `dataclass` that is assigned to the world under
`self.options_dataclass`. By convention, the strings that define your option names should be in `snake_case`.

Common option types are `Toggle`, `DefaultOnToggle`, `Choice`, and `Range`.

> For more information, see the [options api doc](options%20api.md).

Reviewer: The whole section is understandable, I'm just less sure about the dataclass paragraph but I was able to understand the rest

### World Settings

> Settings are set by the user for the particular world, and can be used for those settings that may affect generation or

Reviewer: Is "world" here refering to one player's world or a game generated with multiple worlds? What is "the particular world" here?

and accomplish progression balancing.

The name needs to be unique in each game, meaning a duplicate item has the same ID. Name must not be numeric (must
contain at least 1 letter or symbol).

Other classifications include:

* `filler`: a regular item or trash item
* `useful`: generally quite useful, but not required for anything logical. Cannot be placed on excluded locations
* `trap`: negative impact on the player
* `skip_balancing`: denotes that an item should not be moved to an earlier sphere for the purpose of balancing (to be
  combined with `progression`; see below)
* `progression_skip_balancing`: the combination of `progression` and `skip_balancing`, i.e., a progression item that
  will not be moved around by progression balancing; used, e.g., for currency or tokens, to not flood early spheres

#### Documenting Items

Worlds can optionally provide an `item_descriptions` map which contains human-friendly descriptions of items or item
groups. These descriptions will show up in item-selection options in the Weighted Options page. Extra indentation and
single newlines will be collapsed into spaces.

```python
# items.py

item_descriptions = {

>     "Red Potion":    "A standard health potion",

Reviewer 3: Again, the two extra spaces do not improve readability and black would remove them.

### Events

An Event is a special combination of a Location and an Item, with both having an `id` of `None`. These can be used to
track certain logic interactions, with the Event Item being required for access in other locations or regions, but not

> being "real". They may also be used for making the spoiler log look nicer, i.e. by having a `"Victory"` Event Item, that

Reviewer: What is meant by not "real"? Otherwise the rest of the paragraph is very clear.

is required to finish the game, it will be very clear where the player finishes, rather than only seeing their last
relevant found Item. Events function just like any other Location, and can still have their own access rules, etc.
By convention, the Event "pair" of Location and Item typically have the same name, though this is not a requirement.

> They do not need to exist in the `name_to_id` lookups, as they will be stripped at the end of generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They must not need to exist in the `name_to_id` lookups, as they will be stripped at the end of generation.
```
As requested by treble

Reviewer 3: > as they will be stripped at the end of generation.

This is unclear imo. I would rephrase as something like

> They must not exist in the `name_to_id` lookups, are only used during generation and will not exist in the generated output.

The most common way to create an Event pair is to create and place the Item on the Location as soon as it's created:

```python
from worlds.AutoWorld import World
from BaseClasses import ItemClassification
from .subclasses import MyGameLocation, MyGameItem

class MyGameWorld(World):
    victory_loc = MyGameLocation(self.player, "Victory", None)
    victory_loc.place_locked_item(MyGameItem("Victory", ItemClassification.progression, None, self.player))
```

### Regions

> Regions are logical containers, that typically hold locations that share some common access rules. If location logic is

Reviewer: Can regions hold things other than locations?

Author: yes they can also hold nothing.

from Options import Toggle, Range, Choice, PerGameCommonOptions

class Difficulty(Choice):
    """Sets overall game difficulty."""
    display_name = "Difficulty"
    option_easy = 0
    option_normal = 1
    option_hard = 2
    alias_beginner = 0  # same as easy
    alias_expert = 2  # same as hard
    default = 1  # default to normal

class FinalBossHP(Range):
    """Sets the HP of the final boss"""
    display_name = "Final Boss HP"
    range_start = 100
    range_end = 10000
    default = 2000

class FixXYZGlitch(Toggle):
    """Fixes ABC when you do XYZ"""
    display_name = "Fix XYZ Glitch"

# By convention, we call the options dataclass `<world>Options`.
# It has to be derived from 'PerGameCommonOptions'.
@dataclass
class MyGameOptions(PerGameCommonOptions):
    difficulty: Difficulty
    final_boss_hp: FinalBossHP
    fix_xyz_glitch: FixXYZGlitch
```

```python
# __init__.py

from worlds.AutoWorld import World
from .options import MyGameOptions  # import the options dataclass

class MyGameWorld(World):
    # ...
    options_dataclass = MyGameOptions  # assign the options dataclass to the world
    options: MyGameOptions  # typing for option results
    # ...

> ```

Reviewer: Is this going to be found somewhere else? I personally find examples to be really useful so removing them might not be a net positive.

Author: thought these were in the options api doc already. moved them now.

  world here. Already has access to player options and RNG. This is the earliest step where the world should start
  setting up for the current multiworld, as any steps before this the multiworld itself is still getting set up.
* `create_regions(self)`
  called to place player's regions and their locations into the MultiWorld's regions list.
  If it's hard to separate, this can be done during `generate_early` or `create_items` as well.
* `create_items(self)`
  called to place player's items into the MultiWorld's itempool. After this step all regions
  and items have to be in the MultiWorld's regions and itempool, and these lists should not be modified afterward.
* `set_rules(self)`
  called to set access and item rules on locations and entrances.
* `generate_basic(self)`
  called after the previous steps. Player specific randomization that does not affect logic can be done here.
* `pre_fill(self)`, `fill_hook(self)` and `post_fill(self)` are called to modify item placement
  before, during and after the regular fill process; all finishing before `generate_output`. Any items that need to be

>   placed during `pre_fill` should not exist in the itempool, and if any items that need to be filled this way, but need

Reviewer 2: I think this is the intended reading
```suggestion
  placed during `pre_fill` should not exist in the itempool, and if there are any items that need to be filled this way, but need
```

>   to be in state while you fill other items, they can be returned from `get_prefill_items`.

Reviewer 2: Could also change "return" to a different verb like "read" or "acquired", but I think "returned" makes sense
```suggestion
  to be in state while you fill other items, they can be returned with `get_prefill_items`.
```

Author: not exactly. `get_prefill_items` returns a `List[Item]` and it gets called specifically by `get_all_state`, not the world itself. there probably could be better wording but the suggestion here is slightly incorrect.

                               item.my_type == "weapon")
    # location.item_rule = ... is likely to be a bit faster

    # place "Victory" at "Final Boss" and set collection as win condition
    self.multiworld.get_location("Final Boss", self.player).place_locked_item(self.create_event("Victory"))

    self.multiworld.completion_condition[self.player] = lambda state: state.has("Victory", self.player)

# for debugging purposes, you may want to visualize the layout of your world. Uncomment the following code to
# write a PlantUML diagram to the file "my_world.puml" that can help you see whether your regions and locations
# are connected and placed as desired
# from Utils import visualize_regions
# visualize_regions(self.multiworld.get_region("Menu", self.player), "my_world.puml")
```

### Custom Logic Rules

Custom methods can be defined for your logic rules. The access rule that ultimately gets assigned to the Location or
Entrance should be a [`CollectionRule`](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/worlds/generic/Rules.py#L9).
Typically, this is done by defining a lambda expression on demand at the relevant bit, typically calling other functions,

> but this can also be achieved by defining a method with the appropriate format and assigning it directly, such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but this can also be achieved by defining a method with the appropriate format and assigning it directly. For an example, see
```

[The Messenger](/worlds/messenger/rules.py).

```python
# logic.py

from BaseClasses import CollectionState

def mygame_has_key(self, state: CollectionState, player: int) -> bool:
    # More arguments above are free to choose, since you can expect this is only called in your world
    # MultiWorld can be accessed through state.multiworld, explicitly passing in MyGameWorld instance for easy
    # options access is also a valid approach
    return state.has("key", player)  # or whatever
```

```python
# __init__.py

from worlds.generic.Rules import set_rule
from . import logic

class MyGameWorld(World):

    # ...
    def set_rules(self) -> None:
        set_rule(self.multiworld.get_location("A Door", self.player),
                 lambda state: logic.mygame_has_key(state, self.player))
```

### Logic Mixin

> While lambdas and events could do pretty much anything, more complex logic can be handled in logic mixins.

Reviewer 2: Change tone to match other parts of the doc
```suggestion
While lambdas and events can do pretty much anything, more complex logic can be handled in logic mixins.
```

> When importing a file that defines a class that inherits from `worlds.AutoWorld.LogicMixin` the `CollectionState` class

Reviewer 2: Missing comma
```suggestion
When importing a file that defines a class that inherits from `worlds.AutoWorld.LogicMixin`, the `CollectionState` class
```

is automatically extended by the mixin's members. These members should be prefixed with the name of the implementing
world since the namespace is shared with all other logic mixins.

> Some uses could be to add additional variables to the state object, or have a custom state machine that gets modified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some uses could be to add additional variables to the state object, or to have a custom state machine that gets modified
```

### Slot Data

If the game client needs to know information about the generated seed, a preferred method of transferring the data

> is through the slot data. This can be filled from the `fill_slot_data` method of your world by returning

Reviewer 2: "from" is a bit of a weird preposition, could also use "through" or "using" instead of "with"
```suggestion
is through the slot data. This can be filled with the `fill_slot_data` method of your world by returning
```

> a `Dict[str, Any]`, but should be limited to data that is absolutely necessary to not waste resources. Slot data is

Reviewer 2: Removes a potential ambiguity by reordering the phrases
```suggestion
a `Dict[str, Any]`, but, to not waste resources, this should be limited to data that is absolutely necessary. Slot data is
```

sent to your client once it has successfully [connected](network%20protocol.md#connected).

> If you need to know information about locations in your world; instead of propagating the slot data, it is preferable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to know information about locations in your world, instead of propagating the slot data, it is preferable
```

to use [LocationScouts](network%20protocol.md#locationscouts), since that data already exists on the server. The most

> common usage of slot data is to send option results that the client needs to be aware of.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
common usage of slot data is sending option results that the client needs to be aware of.
```

the `.md` files in your world's `/docs` directory.

#### Game Info

The game info page is for a short breakdown of what your game is and how it works in Archipelago. Any additional
information that may be useful to the player when learning your randomizer should also go here. The file name format
is `<language key>_<game name>.md`. While you can write these docs for multiple languages, currently only the english
version is displayed on the website.

#### Tutorials

Your game can have as many tutorials in as many languages as you like, with each one having a relevant `Tutorial`

> defined in the `WebWorld`. The file name you use aren't particularly important, but it should be descriptive of what

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defined in the `WebWorld`. The file name you use isn't particularly important, but it should be descriptive of what
```

> the tutorial is covering, and the name of the file must match the relative URL provided in the `Tutorial`. Currently,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the tutorial covers, and the name of the file must match the relative URL provided in the `Tutorial`. Currently,
```

class MyGameTestBase(WorldTestBase):
    game = "My Game"
```

> Next using the rules defined in the above `set_rules` we can test that the chests have the correct access rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, using the rules defined in the above `set_rules`, we can test that the chests have the correct access rules.
```

Example `test_chest_access.py`

```python
from . import MyGameTestBase

class TestChestAccess(MyGameTestBase):

>     def test_sword_chests(self) -> None:

Author: i'm ok with whatever you decide, but i personally prefer to have a line above method definitions. if it were an attribute i wouldn't put the blank line but i do prefer it for a class that has a method and no defined attributes.

>     def test_sword_chests(self) -> None:

Reviewer 3: Well, imo there are cases where it hurts readability. That is
```python
class Outer:
    class Inner1:
        pass

    class Inner2:

        def method(self):
            pass

    class Inner3:
        pass
```
In BaseClasses we use the version with no blank line, so I would revert those changes.

        """Test locations that require a sword"""

>         locations = ["Chest1", "Chest2"]

Reviewer 2: It won't let me comment on line 808 (the last line), but it's missing a comma after "For more information on tests"
